>> Audience: Are you gonna talk about
managing complexity and simplicity?
To give an example, I'm working on
an email service that moderates
encrypted-signed standard emails.
I'm implementing a rule system, but the
other developer doesn't know the system.
The rule system adds complexity, but
it adds flexibility, modularity, and
scalability for future additions to the
system, but adds complexity to the design.
How do we manage complexity down the road?
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so if I'm
understanding the question is basically,
well, so, okay, so I think a good
approach to that is planning.
It's really around planning.
If you have something that you know is
going to be a big change to the system but
it's for the good, right?
Your job is not to technically
build that well, but
it's to educate and
to share the understanding of it well.
You're not gonna be able to get that sold
unless the other developer and any other
person on any other team can confidently
answer why you're doing that rule system.
You might think it's a great rule system,
but
if you don't have documentation that
backs why this rule system should exist,
again, where I work, at Hippo, we have
technical documentation around anything.
The first time anyone brings anything
up in a discussion, it's okay,
where's the TDD, right?
And that's not meant to be rude.
It's meant to make it so that our culture
focuses on education first, right?
It's kind of like being in a meeting,
but then not knowing the agenda, right?
You kinda just sit there and you're like,
okay, as long as everyone's on the same
page, then you can make
any change that you want.
But I do think what that person
is dealing with is more of
a communication challenge than
the actual technical side of it.
And so
figuring out what works best for you.
For example, at Hippo, we want to
move to Kubernetes for everything.
That wasn't an overnight thing.
I started working on that a year ago, and
I just showed a demo to the entire
company last week [LAUGH].
So it took a lot of preparation,
a lot of preparing,
and also being prepared for
anybody who might push back.
Right, be prepared.
Engineers have opinions,
they all do, gosh, they do.
And you have to be prepared for those
opinions and be open to them as well.
Don't be like, well,
it's good system, just deal.
No, you need to be able to handle that
in a way where you're actually trying.
You're a salesman,
you're trying to figure out how to
sell what you're trying to make.
And so I think with complexity
also needs to come understanding.
>> Audience: Do you have any
advice when to use open source
solutions like Keycloak or
making your own auth?
>> Erik Reinert: I can't say
much about making your own auth,
because I pretty much
always do that [LAUGH].
I have tried a lot of different systems,
I've tried Clerk,
I've tried Auth0,
I've tried whatever else.
I think you need to be able to
be confident in which system is
going to give you the most value.
And that might mean, again,
timeboxing it, setting requirements and
asking, and
even potentially exploring, right?
Open source is great, but
business is business.
And if business can afford to pay for
something so
that engineers don't have to manage
their own auth for five hours,
eight hours out of the week,
then you're saving engineering time.
And I guarantee you, the cost of the
engineering in a company is normally a lot
more than the resources you put
towards cloud infrastructure or
something like that.
So a good example is, if you wanted to go
with an open source solution, make sure
before you make that decision, that you
understand the maintenance challenges.
Make sure you understand the scalability
challenges, because at some
point you're gonna have to figure out how
to maintain, or how to update that system.
You're gonna have to figure out
how to fix it if something breaks.
And if you're really good at that
open source framework, then yeah,
it might be a perfect fit.
But I think checking all
the boxes on the requirements,
going even back to,
how do I prepare for future complexity?
That other question fits
really well into here.
Because you might use
an open source project and
solve a problem really quickly.
But then down the road, you didn't
expect the complexity of, for example,
Vault uses a Raft consensus algorithm.
How many here know what a Raft
consensus algorithm is?
Okay, okay, one person,
yeah, there [LAUGH] you go.
Do you as well?
Okay, so yeah, so one person.
So if you don't understand how it works,
but
you just deploy it because it's easy
to deploy, it's not the same as making
it an educated decision on whether or
not it should actually be used.
>> Audience: When you refer to
documentation, are you always
referring to markdown files or
things in that nature?
Or sometimes TDD or tests and
stuff for this documentation?
>> Erik Reinert: Any
kind of documentation.
Yeah, any kind of documentation.
One of the best pieces of advice I can
give anyone out there listening is,
learn how to become a salesman, right?
Sometimes it means flashy charts and
things that people can get excited about.
Sometimes it means very verbose documents
in Confluence that are just paragraphs of
you writing and
getting all of your thoughts on the paper.
Both are valuable,
both have their use case.
But I think it's really,
you have to think about your audience.
And that was a big challenge for
me when building systems like this, too.
Was, it's like, if I'm talking to
developers, flashy, flashy, [LAUGH] right,
cuz that's what dev's like.
Sorry, [LAUGH] but it's true.
Whereas stakeholders,
one of the biggest challenges I had was
writing huge documents and then going and
being like, okay,
let me show this to a business owner.
And them being like,
I'm not gonna read this.
I don't have time to read this,
this is huge.
This is a thesis on why you
should use Kubernetes, right?
Break it down into bullet points, get
it to me so I can read in five minutes.
And different documentation
solves different problems.